The
YO WHAT IS UP.
Everybody this is Jason Woodruffs Klopstock com.
And in this video we're going to cover some developer tools that are really going to help you when you're
designing web pages and web applications.
All right.
And what this tool is it's an inspector tool that helps you see a little under the hood of what's going
on with your HLN CSSA in the browser.
So let's go ahead we've got our project opened here.
Go ahead and launch it and the first browser we're going to cover is the inspector tools for Chrome.
All right.
So we've got our project here.
And what I want you to do is I want you to right click and then come down to the bottom and click this
tab inspect all right and what that brings is this Inspektor tool right here in the bottom.
All right so let me show you how to use this.
So what this is is you can see as I highlight these different levels it's targeting different sections
of my website so you can see that we've got the head here.
And then once I come into the body we see that the whole page highlights and then if I come down one
more you can see this is the container that we created so I'm going to actually go ahead and click on
this.
And then you've got these little arrows here you can expand the content to see what's inside of here
so you can see that I've got this class and we added our a container class to this remember.
And for the container we actually removed the styling.
So if you come over here to the right side this section over here under Stiles is going to show you
all the success rules that you have on your elements.
So you can see that the container is empty because we commented that out.
But then you'll also see that we have a DIV tag here with a display of block.
So by nature C Ss puts a display of block on div tags K and you can see that a DIV tag with this display.
It covers the entire viewport of our browser.
All right.
So let's come down a little deeper and let's go into the head of one tag.
You can see up top here that it's highlighting it and you can see that we've got the head or one tag
selected.
The blue is directly around the tecs.
And then we've got this orange around it which actually indicates margin.
And let's come over here to the right side into the stiles so we can see that our head or one tag we
can see the style rules that we put on here and we put a color of white and that text shadow on there
and it's got these checkboxes next to it and you can see in the browser as I check and uncheck these
how or remove the style and add it back on as I check.
All right.
And then you can see that the head or one element by nature has a display of Block.
It's got a font size to it.
And then check this out.
It has a margin added to the top and bottom.
All right.
And then a font weight.
Bold and then right down here at the bottom this actually shows you the dimensions of your element.
So we can see here the size of the text the display of block expands the entire viewport by a 3:41 and
then my head or one text is actually thirty seven pixels tall.
And then we don't have any padding which you can see this highlight screen.
The borders are a kind of a light orange yellow and then the margin is orange and you can see that it
has a margin of 21 point for four.
So that is Hetter one tags default style of propertys style rules.
And then if we come into the head or two we can come here we can see the specific style rules we added
to this with the color and text shadow.
And then again it has default properties of display font sizes a little bit smaller the margins are
a little bit smaller.
And again we have the actual dimensions down here at the very very bottom it shows the dimensions of
our element.
So let's learn how to use this a little more.
So over here in the far left corner we've got this selector tool and when we click that you can see
that we can hover around our page and it's going to select elements.
So for example I stop here on the image and I can go ahead and click it and kind of like drops a pin
and automatically right here in the element Inspektor it highlights my image we can see the source the
J-P the PMG file that it's grabbing and the class that we added to it.
And then over here on the stiles on the right you can see our class with the border and remember how
we did a border of 10 pixels dashed red.
Well check this how we can expand this and it gives us detailed colors that because we use the shorthand
border look it actually used the properties border top right color border top style the with the right
color right styled right with.
And so just by using the short and here it kind of compiles and this is the actual list of all the default
styles that it added for us.
So that's pretty cool.
Now the other thing we can do is we can actually take this web page that we've created and if we click
on this right here toggle device toolbar this is going to put this web page in a mobile view this page
that we built here isn't set up for mobile.
So why don't you go ahead.
Open up a new tab and just go to dev slopes dot com.
All right.
And then in here.
Let's go ahead and Right-Click and we're going to inspect.
And then let's go ahead and click on this toggle right here for the devices.
I mean get rid of this pop up.
Go ahead and click that and let's do this up here at the top.
You've got this dropdown menu and it has a bunch of different phones in it.
So let's go ahead and select the iPhone 6 plus or I'm going to move this down just a little bit so we
can increase the size.
Let's do that window that's 50 percent.
Let's see if we can bump it up to 75.
All right.
That works.
So now you can see that we've got an iPhone 6 plus selected and it takes your web application web site
and it puts it into a mobile state so you can actually see what this is going to look like and you can
see that I've got my little round bubble cursor here.
This is like a touch screen so we can go ahead and click on the X up here we've got the side menu.
We've got different sections that we can go to and it's going to load the content and then down here
again we can see that we've got a list of elements here that we can inspect to see what kind of style
rules on it.
So I can go ahead and click the selector tool again select this first image and then in a mobile state
we can see all the classes that are assigned to this.
Right.
And then over here in the styles and others is a little hard to see and let me pull it up here.
We can see all the style rules that are applied to this image so.
Pretty cool stuff.
So that's how you work with Chrome.
All right.
And then I want to show you Firefox and Safari.
So wherever your project is located open up your project folder that we're working in.
All right.
And then go ahead and select the HTML file and I want you to right click on it and then do an open with
and then I'm going to go ahead and select Firefox this time.
All right so now we've got our project in Firefox.
So again to inspect her element with Firefox we're going to right click click inspect element and it's
the same similar concept.
OK you've got your elements here on the left and you've got your styles here on the right.
So if I click on the container and I expand this you can see again that we've got our head of ones and
twos.
And then over here on the right we've got our style properties to it.
All right and then same thing with the head or twos.
Now we can also again click the arrow right here.
And again it's going to allow us to select different elements on our page and we can select that and
it's going to jump to the element right here in our inspector and we can view the star properties here
on the right and then it has a few other options here.
So if we click this guy right here this is going to tell us whether we want to position this inspectorship
on the right.
We can go ahead and slap it down here on the bottom and we've got a option to do the same thing that
we did in Chrome and put this in a responsive design mode.
All right so move our inspector down and we've got it over here.
Now what I want you to do is you can slide to this and it's going to give you different dimension screens.
All right so I'm going to actually go back and create a mobile phone here and then if we click this
little hand here this is going to allow us to click around or website.
But again why don't we go ahead and open up dev slopes website so we can check it out in a mobile state.
So right click inspect element and then come over to this responsive design mode.
So we've got that pulled up again and I'm going to make this a little smaller.
Perfect.
And then to navigate this right now we can't click on anything you see that you've got to click this
little hand here and it's weird because Firefox says that you might need to reload the page and refresh
it which I do every time so go ahead and click it.
I'm going to hit command are.
You could go ahead and click the refresh button here and refreshing the page.
And now I can go ahead and I can click on it so I can navigate my page in a mobile state.
All right.
So very cool we've covered that and that is Firefox.
Let's go ahead and close this and let's check this out in Safari now Safari is a little bit different.
So again go to your project folder right click on the index file and do open with.
And we're going to go ahead and select Safari this time.
So come and click safari.
We've got it opened up here.
Now if I right click you'll notice that I don't have an inspect element here.
Right.
We've only got these four options to allow inspect element on safari come over and click the Safari
click preferences.
We're going to come all the way over here and then down here at the bottom it says show develop menu
in menu bar.
So when we click that you'll see that we got a new tab up here on safari called develop and we can go
ahead and close this.
Now when I right click I can now inspect the element.
All right and same thing here so we've got all of our elements nested inside.
Here we can expand them highlight them if we want to target a specific element come over here to this
little safari scope target thing and you can you know go ahead and select elements and we'll bring you
to the element here on your right.
And let me come back here cut off my element page and then if we want we can reposition this.
Just click this right here for the right side you can click it for the bottom you can click this here
and actually pop the inspector outside of the web page here which I really like especially if you're
using two screens you can pop out the inspector throw this on your second screen so it's out of the
way and use it that way.
So let's go ahead and dock this again and then if we want to check out the mobile responsive design
of the site.
Let's go ahead.
Open up a new tab.
Again I'm going to have slopestyle com and then this time we're going to select the developed tab here
we can come down and select enter a responsive design mode and there is a hot key for that.
So if we click this I really like the way Apple set it up it's very clean.
You can select the different devices here and then from here you can go ahead and right click on it
and then inspect the element.
So we can go in head and take the target tool and select an element in here and it's kind of highlighted
here in our element.
Inspector that completes this lesson we have learned how to use the inspector tools in Chrome Firefox
and Safari.
And you're going to be using this a lot especially when working with CSSA.
When you have elements not being displayed properly or being positioned weird and especially when you
have style rules running in or messing with other style rules so that's a wrap.
Let's move on.
Yes.